Sync NextJs Quick Start and Web App Tutorials (#21718)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/getting-started/tutorials/with-nextjs.mdx

>
<TabPanel id="js" label="JavaScript">

> Create a `middleware.js` file at project's root and another one within the `util/supbase` (since we need to create a server supabase client to refresh the tokens).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `middleware.js` file at the project root and another one within the `utils/supabase` folder. The `utils/supabase` file contains the logic for updating the session. This is used by the `middleware.js` file, which is a Next.js convention.
```

  })

  const supabase = createServerClient(
    process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL!,
    process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY!,
    {
      cookies: {
        get(name) {
          return request.cookies.get(name)?.value
        },
        set(name, value, options) {
          request.cookies.set({
            name,
            value,
            ...options,
          })
          response = NextResponse.next({
            request: {
              headers: request.headers,
            },
          })
          response.cookies.set({
            name,
            value,
            ...options,
          })
        },
        remove(name, options) {
          request.cookies.set({
            name,
            value: '',
            ...options,
          })
          response = NextResponse.next({
            request: {
              headers: request.headers,
            },
          })
          response.cookies.set({
            name,
            value: '',
            ...options,
          })
        },
      },
    }
  )

  // refreshing the auth token
  await supabase.auth.getUser()

  return response
}
```
</CH.Code>

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="ts" label="TypeScript">

> Create a `middleware.ts` file at project's root and another one within the `util/supbase` (since we need to create a server supabase client to refresh the tokens).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `middleware.ts` file at the project root and another one within the `util/ssupbase` folder. The `utils/supabase` file contains the logic for updating the session. This is used by the `middleware.js` file, which is a Next.js convention.
```

    process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY!,
    {
      cookies: {
        get(name: string) {
          return request.cookies.get(name)?.value
        },
        set(name: string, value: string, options: CookieOptions) {
          request.cookies.set({
            name,
            value,
            ...options,
          })
          response = NextResponse.next({
            request: {
              headers: request.headers,
            },
          })
          response.cookies.set({
            name,
            value,
            ...options,
          })
        },
        remove(name: string, options: CookieOptions) {
          request.cookies.set({
            name,
            value: '',
            ...options,
          })
          response = NextResponse.next({
            request: {
              headers: request.headers,
            },
          })
          response.cookies.set({
            name,
            value: '',
            ...options,
          })
        },
      },
    }
  )

  // refreshing the auth token
  await supabase.auth.getUser()

  return response
}
```
</CH.Code>

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Set up a login page

### Login and Signup form

> Standard to any application with authentication. We need to have a login/signup page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a login/signup page for your application:
```

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="js"
  queryGroup="language"
>
<TabPanel id="js" label="JavaScript">

> First, we need to create a new folder `login`, and a new `page.jsx` with the following form to accept login/signup request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new folder named `login`, containing a `page.jsx` file with a login/signup form.
```

```jsx app/login/page.jsx
import { login, signup } from './actions'

export default function LoginPage() {
  return (
    <form>
      <label htmlFor="email">Email:</label>
      <input id="email" name="email" type="email" required />
      <label htmlFor="password">Password:</label>
      <input id="password" name="password" type="password" required />
      <button formAction={login}>Log in</button>
      <button formAction={signup}>Sign up</button>
    </form>
  )
}
```
</TabPanel>

<TabPanel id="ts" label="TypeScript">

> First, we need to create a new folder `login`, and a new `page.tsx` with the following form to accept login/signup request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new folder named `login`, containing a `page.jsx` file with a login/signup form.
```

```tsx app/login/page.tsx
import { login, signup } from './actions'

export default function LoginPage() {
  return (
    <form>
      <label htmlFor="email">Email:</label>
      <input id="email" name="email" type="email" required />
      <label htmlFor="password">Password:</label>
      <input id="password" name="password" type="password" required />
      <button formAction={login}>Log in</button>
      <button formAction={signup}>Sign up</button>
    </form>
  )
}
```
</TabPanel>

</Tabs>

> Now you should have a login page at `http://localhost:3000/login` without much functionalities. Next is to create the login/singup actions. They need to fulfill the following requirement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to `http://localhost:3000/login`. You should see your login form, but it's not yet hooked up to the actual login function. Next, you need to create the login/signup actions. They will:
```

> - Retrieve the user's given information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Retrieve the user's information.
```

export async function login(formData: FormData) {
  const supabase = createClient()

  // type-casting here for convenience
  // in practice, you should validate your inputs
  const data = {
    email: formData.get('email') as string,
    password: formData.get('password') as string,
  }

  const { error } = await supabase.auth.signInWithPassword(data)

  if (error) {
    redirect('/error')
  }

  revalidatePath('/', 'layout')
  redirect('/account')
}

export async function signup(formData: FormData) {
  const supabase = createClient()

  // type-casting here for convenience
  // in practice, you should validate your inputs
  const data = {
    email: formData.get('email') as string,
    password: formData.get('password') as string,
  }

  const { error } = await supabase.auth.signUp(data)

  if (error) {
    redirect('/error')
  }

  revalidatePath('/', 'layout')
  redirect('/account')
}
```

```tsx app/error/page.tsx
export default function ErrorPage() {
  return <p>Sorry, something went wrong</p>
}
```
</CH.Code>
</TabPanel>

When you enter your email and password, you will receive an email with the title **Confirm Your Signup**. Congrats 🎉!!!

</Tabs>

> <Admonition type="tip">
> Supabase also offers some pre-built React component that handles all the authentication functionalities under the hood for you. Check this [guide](/docs/guides/auth/auth-helpers/auth-ui) out.
> </Admonition>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)

> Upon sign up, an email will be sent to the user with a unique hash code. This key can then be sent back to the application for verification, and thus authenticating the user. The method is referred to as Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE). As we are employing PKCE in our authentication flow, it is necessary to create a route handler responsible for exchanging the code for a session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon sign up, an email will be sent to the user with a unique hash code. This key can then be sent back to the application for verification, thus authenticating the user. The method is referred to as Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE). As we are employing PKCE in our authentication flow, it is necessary to create a route handler responsible for exchanging the code for a session.
```

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

### Sign out

Let's create a route handler to handle the signout from the server side. Make sure to check if the user is logged in first!

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="js"
  queryGroup="language"
>
<TabPanel id="js" label="JavaScript">

```js app/auth/signout/route.js

> import { createClient } from '@/utils/supabase/server'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { createClient } from '@/utils/supabase/server'
import { revalidatePath } from 'next/cache'
```

import { NextResponse } from 'next/server'

export async function POST(req) {
  const supabase = createClient()

  // Check if a user's logged in
  const {
    data: { user },
  } = await supabase.auth.getUser()

  if (user) {
    await supabase.auth.signOut()
  }

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

revalidatePath('/', 'layout')
```

  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/login', req.url), {
    status: 302,
  })
}
```

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="ts" label="TypeScript">

```ts app/auth/signout/route.ts

> import { createClient } from '@/utils/supabase/server'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { createClient } from '@/utils/supabase/server'
import { revalidatePath } from 'next/cache'
```

import { type NextRequest, NextResponse } from 'next/server'

export async function POST(req: NextRequest) {
  const supabase = createClient()

  // Check if a user's logged in
  const {
    data: { user },
  } = await supabase.auth.getUser()

  if (user) {
    await supabase.auth.signOut()
  }

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

revalidatePath('/', 'layout')
```

          {uploading ? 'Uploading ...' : 'Upload'}
        </label>
        <input
            style={{
                visibility: 'hidden',
                position: 'absolute',
            }}

>           className='invisible absolute'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

          {uploading ? 'Uploading ...' : 'Upload'}
        </label>
        <input
            style={{
                visibility: 'hidden',
                position: 'absolute',
            }}

>           className='invisible absolute'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
